# Descartes

We do not mean to suggest that “modern” science is devoid of method when we say it has become pre-Cartesian (and there are several that continue to be in use among scientists). Empiricism however is unable to think the cogito, where the cogito should be rigorously distinguished from the empirical ego, and the sense-impressions and biases that populate it. The “cogito ergo sum” is not the purely psychological awareness of the ego that it exists, drawing on the affects of doubt and certainty, but a transcendental operation that splits ego and subject. It is in this that Karatani finds the origin of the transcendental, through the operation of bracketing (which we will see later in Kant and Husserl)—a subtraction that produces the pure ego. 

> The transcendental position is equivalent to bracketing the imagined self-evidence of the empirical consciousness in order to reveal the (unconscious) conditions that constitute it. What is crucial here is that the transcendental standpoint inexorably accompanies a certain kind of subjectivity.[^1]

The subject has to be distinguished from the mind that we might consider a bundle of impressions and memories. Cogito ergo sum is not an empirical observation that could be inferred from the impressions of the subject, and neither is this a proposition that might be derived logically, “ergo cogito, ergo ego”. 

The importance of Descartes to modern science has been put first of all by Koyré, seeing in the cogito the break between the classical episteme and modern science, and has been appropriated by Lacan, who identifies the cogito with the subject of science, which is supposed to be the site that psychoanalysis operates on. The subject produced by the Cartesian bracketing has been stripped of all its qualities, much like how mathematical physics eliminates all the qualities of the beings that it encounters (which emerges victorious with Newton’s Principia). This allows us to attain what Jean-Claude Milner calls the axiom of the subject: “There is a subject distinct from any form of empirical individuality.”[^2]

That the subject is nothing does not mean that there is no subject; it is this minimal difference that  allows us to discover a stratum which can be separated from empirical data as the matter of science without being sutured to them. This means that science is only secondarily concerned with empirical data, especially of their prediction, having to do with a theoreticism, the production of theories that precede their empirical determinations. This is the difference between Ptolemy and Newton: while both of their work is mathematical, it is only the latter’s work that Koyré will put under the label of “mathematization of Nature”. Ptolemy is concerned solely with “saving the phenomena” of astronomical observations, while Newtonian physics (even Cartesian physics) concerns precisely an any-being-whatsoever and any-system-whatsoever, through the construction of a system of concepts (force, momentum, mass) which are interrelated and do not themselves refer back directly to experience.

Part of the reason that we insist on this theoreticism is in opposition to the more common identification of machine learning with science, that science finds its fulfillment in machine learning through the use of neural networks to compress vast amounts of data into patterns which can be used to predict future observations (this is sometimes seen with the identification of the scientific method as a special case of Bayes’ theorem). This is a hyper-Ptolemization that threatens to be a regression from modern science to the classical episteme. The neural network, we might note, has no need to be conscious of itself as a cogito, nor to perform a subtraction from the empirical data that it is presented with (given that it is only supposed to make closer and closer predictions of data). At no time do we find in the process of training a neural network a theoretical apparatus of concepts that can be applied to various states of affairs.

# Kant

The Copernican turn inaugurated by Kant has always been well-known; the shift from the idea that cognition conforms to its object to the idea that objects conform to our cognition. It has become something of a commonplace for announcements that Kant has been vindicated by neuroscience, because of the discovery of neural systems that regulate the perception of space, time, or something along those lines. This is a reading of the Critique of Pure Reason that owes much more to the re-formulation of Kant in neo-Kantianism, particularly in Helmholtz. To take the transcendental seriously means that we have to follow Descartes in breaking with empirical consciousness, particularly the ego treated by psychology. 

We cannot so simply assimilate the Kantian cogito into the Cartesian cogito, with both Karatani and Deleuze showing the coordinates of Kant’s break with Descartes. It can still, however, be taken as a radicalization of the Cartesian cogito. The “cognition” that is spoken of here cannot be taken either as psychology (as a description of various mental acts that can be identified with neural or computational processes) or as a set of communal norms that must regulate thought for it to be rational (as has been most notably taken up by Brandom and Negarestani). 

Kant’s importance here is the introduction of the pure categories of thought. Kant’s work has always been thought of as providing the transcendental conditions of possibility of Newtonian physics, which itself has been produced by post-Cartesian science as a system of concepts which are purified from experience and yet can be connected back to them (when the laws of motion are used to predict the trajectories of planets or cannonballs). The importance of the categories is to ground the objectivity and rationality of such a set of concepts, by referring back to a logically possible table of judgements. It is here that we come to the importance of logic as something that is irreducible to a merely formal logic (we see hints of this in Descartes’ statement of the cogito), what Kant himself calls a properly transcendental logic. 

Kant has to be distinguished from his post-Kantian successors, ranging from Nietzsche, Spencer, Mach, James, Bergson, and Carnap who, in attempting to reframe transcendental idealism in a pragmatist fashion, take his synthetic a priori judgements as being pragmatically or conventionally useful judgements that can be taken “as if” (Vaihinger) and which can be revised as required. It’s here that we find the idea that science is primarily in the business of the creation of models, regulated according to the maxim “all models are false, but some are useful.” Each model is an abstraction that starts from a set of assumptions taken “as if”, als-ob, and can be judged based on how useful, or empirically adequate it is. 

The Kantian problem that we can lob at modeling is that to intelligibly say “I am holding these principles as-if,” or “I am revising the set of categories in tune with the new physics,” requires, for these utterances to be intelligible, a horizon of intelligibility in which we can talk about the difference between one model and another, or of one model and the explanandum for which the model serves as explanans. This is why intuition for Kant cannot simply be thought of as a biological adaptation or faculty, as we see in Spencer and Mach, where the a priori is the a priori of the human race. To make these judgments itself presupposes this horizon of objectivity which continues to be disavowed. 


# Hegel

There is not simply one stream that we can insist on the importance of Hegel. Perhaps the most important is by providing us with a proper concept of progress, which is not the simple quantitative accumulation of data or the steadily lowering loss function of a neural network being trained on a mass of data. To think of science as having a history that is not simply the succession of empirical data or of discoveries and theories that remains exterior to the activities of the sciences themselves. The closest is in the work of Cavaillès, who has attempted to provide a history of the sciences, especially mathematics, which would be necessary to secure its objectivity while not denying that it is constantly in a becoming; we may also speak of Lautman in this connection, who comes closer to talking about a dialectic, enriched by Hegel, which is at play in the history of physico-mathematics. It is Cavaillès who articulates a theory of the a priori which can be historical without being a Nietzschean-Spencerian biologism, or the style of conventionalism we see in Carnap.

It is here that we return to the problematic of the “as-if” that underlines the activity of modeling, insofar as we now with Hegel can think of the unconscious. The main things that jump out are how we should think of the very activity of choosing an “as-if”, especially once we have to account for the status of the as-if in the unconscious of the modeler. The as-if originally presents itself as arbitrary, and what we first have to see is the dialectical “recovery” of this stubborn as-if judgment which is itself brought back into the rationality of science. It is here that with the as-if is established that the as-if that is held in the very operation of choosing a model as-if is made manifest. 

The significance of Hegel, though, comes from the insistence (which must be read in an ethical fashion) that what is most immediate is abstract, and this drives much post-Hegelian philosophy (critical theory, Marxism, even the Pittsburgh school). A non-empiricist understanding of science does not mean the caricature of the armchair philosopher who through pure thought alone wishes to deduce Krug’s pen.

The demand of empiricism is that the Universal should issue from the Particular and in turn should explain the Particular. (Here, of course, the Universal would happen to be a law or a general statement like “all swans are white”, while the particular would refer back to individual experiments, sense-data). The test of the abstract Universal is that it can apply, or regulate the Particular (Krug’s pen), whether judged by verificationism or falsificationism. The concept, in Deleuze or Hegel (as the Begriff) is often confused with the abstract Universal and is often reproached for not being as empirically sound, as … Empiricism is caught in a bad infinity as it shuttles between the Particular and the Universal, oscillating without mediation. 

This is the reason that empiricism is still Platonistic, insofar as the definition of the Universal as something abstract that can be predicated of particulars, not fit for the world of becoming, but it is now taken in a pessimistic, skeptical or ironic mode. This recalls Hegel’s critique of Plato, that the fact that the Platonic Idea (as Universal) is not applicable to the world of becoming is a mark of the failure of Platonism itself as a theory of the Idea. It is therefore here that Hegel marks the importance of the concrete Universal, the Individual that is the mediation of Universal and Particular, which we will see in science and philosophy. Science as consisting of concrete universals will now allow us to think of science as being regulated by a logic, and one which is not so easily destroyed by lone facts (we will bring this up when we discuss Lakatos’ revision of Popper, in which he demolishes the Popperian necessity of the refutation of a theory by a single piece of data.) 


# Research Programmes

The importance of even Leibniz, and of course Kant and Hegel is the development which they give to the concept (Begriff), which we can think of in an essentially ramified and/or hierarchical fashion. This is contrast to the empiricist understanding of the concept as the elimination of features (in the process which is taken to be ‘abstraction’) from the particulars given in sense data. This is how empiricists conceive of science, as indulging in empirical generalizations on the order of “all swans are white” which can be knocked over by a black swan (the falsifying fact). This however would assume that this is all the complexity of a scientific theory. 

We might however note that this generalization about swans can be knocked out by a brute fact only because this generalization is on the order of what it is falsified by. Lakatos’ revision of Popper with the “research programme” at least indexes the influence that Hegel and Marx had on him, insofar as the scientific theory is fleshed out and can no longer be defeated through individual facts. The research programme has a core and a periphery; when a theory is tested, it is not the core that is tested but the combination of the core and periphery, so when a scientist’s results fail, she can assume that the core was right and that the periphery (the additional “bridge” hypotheses that allow the core to be tested) which has to be revised. The classic example is the discovery of Neptune; on the discovery of irregularities in the orbit of Uranus, the core of Newtonian gravity was not set aside but the periphery was modified with the hypothesis of an eighth planet influencing Uranus’ orbit. 

This is an example of how a theory can always be fortified from any recalcitrant datum, sometimes to the success of the theory, not its failure. The success and a failure of a research programme is defined as something immanent to it, working out by a “truth is consequences”. A progressive research programme has an increasing explanatory scope, while the opposing holds for a degenerating research programme. We should note that this has not been defined in terms of the particular truth-correspondence of research-programmes. Lakatos has to concede that the possibility exists that the progressive research programme can degenerate, and vice versa, and even accepts the necessity of a scientist having to stick to a degenerating research programme in the absence of any alternatives, in the hope that persistence to this programme might bear fruit. 

Lakatos ends up making manifest the ethical nature of epistemology, introducing for the first time affects like stubbornness and persistence to scientific work. The question of Lakatos is no longer whether the scientist has hit on truth but whether the scientist is on a particular ethical ...

[^1]: Kojin Kartani, Transcritique: On Kant and Marx, pg. 82
[^2]: Jean-Claude Milner, A Search for Clarity, pg 17
