# Hegel, Newton, and the Finite

I chose to take AP Comparative Government in place of AP Physics because the teacher of the former had mentioned the name Hegel to me after class the semester or so prior. I couldn’t quite understand what was behind this name despite visits to Wikipedia and the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy and that enigma drew me further and further into the world of this teacher. Noticing my interest, the teacher soon threw some books my way he had been thumbing through at the time. The first work of philosophy he introduced me to was Habermas’ Structural Transformation of the Public Sphere. This book went on to confuse me further about not only Hegel, but also Kant and Marx. The only figure I felt I understood was De Touqeville. What struck me most was how the duration of the text was concentrated upon quotes and analysis of things others had thought instead of a simple declaration of simple facts and states of things.  I will never forget the moment that I opened this book and was met with an etymological analysis of Oikos. I pushed through the work in spite of being confused and lost for large parts of it. It was more like enduring a dream than being among waking reality. 

It was exactly this feeling of the challenge to normal reality that grabbed my attention that day after class when the teacher had begun speaking to some of the other students lingering around on the topic of philosophy. He was trying to explain Plato’s Forms and was at the light board drawing and commenting. I had never heard such odd things. The conversation I initiated afterwards led to the first mention of Hegel. From the very start what Philosophy signaled to me was an understanding different from the engrained ways of perceiving that become embedded in the necessity of navigating our particular world and relations with other beings. Further still, the person who introduced me to this took pains to teach the History and Governmental Procedures of not only the United States but many other Nations. He opened class one day with Weber’s definition of the State having a Monopoly on Violence. This was the kind of atmosphere that I came to first read philosophy in and the effect it had was a deep interest in legal theory insofar as it was offered to me in course instruction.  I enjoyed the AP Comparative Government Course immensely, but it would go on to cost more than I could imagine during my first semester of undergrad.

Spending a year studying legal theory and reading philosophy books from the course’s instructor from De Beauvoir’s Ethics of Ambiguity to Langdon Winner’s Autonomous Technology was nothing short of engrossing, but it left me with no formal education in physics necessary for a university level engagement since I had taken that in place of AP Physics. During my first semester of undergrad, among other things, I was enrolled in a Classical Mechanics course and an Anthropology course. In the Physics course I was met with what I had avoided. In the Anthropology class, I was met with contemporary analyses of the European Response to the Refugee Crisis following the Syrian Civil War.  My attention was completely absorbed into the Anthropology course as my last year of High School was only preheating for what I was to come across then and there. 

The other courses fared well because they were repeats of content I had seen the year prior with a few additions. But the Physics course ate at the core of my being day in, day out. Though the lectures made sense, I could not understand the first thing about the homework problems. There was a disconnect that wasn’t present in my high school curriculum. Why would I go to lecture and not know how to solve problems afterwards? Why would no one teach how to solve the problems if that’s all that’s demanded constantly? The best one got was office hours where somehow they were to be possessed by the answer while the Teaching Assistant or Professor listened to their compounding confessions of confusion. These divination techniques never quite came to me like they had for other students. The lectures were wildly engrossing and informative but they were not connected to the tangible issue of the deadline and the problems required for it. I thought this was unique and that my other courses demonstrated what would be the norm for the duration of my university experience. It pains me to write so clearly the naive hypothesis that would become my ruin. So many times I would conjure some state of exception to explain why the next time must be different while burying myself deeper into the citation chain first borne adjacent to my government classes and then animated by Foucauldian Decolonial Theory listed on the Syllabus as Anthropology. Towards the end of my first semester a quote about ‘deterritorialization’ had caught my eye. I had seen the name Deleuze before since the government teacher recommended Difference and Repetition, but I chose not to read it after seeing in the Foreword or somewhere that Kierkeegard was supposedly a major influence; I had plans to read Kierkegaard directly at the time, and so chose not to read DR. It was the name Guattari that had actually stood out to me in the anthropology reading. I realized that I had been working on an idea in my essay for that course which deterritorialization seemed better suited for than my own ideas. However, panic over a weekly(bi-weekly?) Physics Quiz distracted me from refining that point in my essay. I did however keep the plans to read the text cited.
 
After going through some Deleuze and Guattari I had for some time the nasty delusion that Deleuze was speaking about the one and the same Hegel that my government teacher had long ago inflicted upon me as an enigma. Eventually I came across the ideas of another writer who suggested that Deleuze was really taken up with the Hegel of Jean Hyppolite. In the essay that I failed to integrate deterritorialization into freshman fall, I tried to think through the notion of the “Master Slave Dialectic” that had been discussed in a documentary from class on Fratz Fanon. Later on, this notion of a sort of layering of Hegel brought me to suspect that where Fanon seems to be discussing something of Hegel, really it is more Kojeve and the chatter around that. Where does the chatter end and Hegel begin? I cannot say. The most honest thing I can ever say is that I have understood nothing of Hegel. I may only lay claim to understanding that Hegelianisms have existed, and even then this must be declared from beyond and without. And yet it was the fixation on this confusion for years that led to a crack in my academic stride and tempo, until eventually a logarithmic void tore at the core of my becoming. The event horizon is composed of block quotes.

For some time, the only name I distrusted more than Hegel was Newton. Yet through reading Hegel on Newton, I came to learn of the sheer importance of Kepler: “Our great countryman Kepler, blessed with the gift of genius as he was, discovered the laws according to which the planets circulate in their orbits. Later, Newton was celebrated for proving these laws not from physical, but from geometrical grounds, and also, despite that, for integrating astronomy into physics”[1]. Hegel is certainly skeptical of Newton, going on to state: “For when, in mathematics, geometry abstracts from time and is constituted solely on the principle of space, while arithmetic abstracts from space relying solely on the principle of time, then knowledge connections in the formal whole are clearly quite distinct from the actual relationships of nature, in which space and time are inseparably united. Higher geometry, on the other hand, in the union with analytical calculation, arises precisely from the necessity of moving freely through space and time as a unity. Unfortunately, it deploys the concept of infinity to overcome the separation only negatively without demonstrating any true synthesis of the two. This negation in no way departs from the formal methods of geometry and arithmetic.” The subtle fictions required for the calculations of mechanics dissolve the unity of their topics, and Hegel pays special attention to infinity as the false invocation of the assumption of the presence of a Higher geometry. I would like to now pivot from Hegel in order to clarify the importance of this opposition to infinity from the vantage point of an association with Kepler which will paradoxically lead us back to Newton.

Those laws which Kepler discovered were interpolations of astronomical observations left behind by Tycho Brahe. In other words, he more or less fit a polynomial to a dataset. Interpolation methods which Kepler used may trace themselves back in part to Jost Burgi, whom Henry Briggs likely learned methods of finite calculus from. Burgi was able to approximate sine with an iterative process that converges to estimates accurate beyond the hundredths' place in an era some 300 years before one could stop linking refined trigonometric tables to the greatest computationalists of the Era. During Burgi’s generation, an algorithm for the approximation of the multiplication of large numbers utilizing spherical trigonometry identities was of wild popularity and Burgi’s method of sin interpolation sped calculations up dramatically. It is unspeakably dramatic: I will not submit it to the cold gaze of analysis. Somehow, he ensured that his methods would go unpublished for centuries. They would only survive in real time by word of Mouth. These are Calculus’ Unwritten Doctrines. He arrived at the logarithm, and it was only through Briggs having come in contact with Burgi’s methods that led him to (possibly arrive at a finite interpolation procedure for the logarithm and to) urge John Napier to refine his natural logarithm into the base10 system so widely called ‘log’ today in speech (though math.log in python3 is base e, as it should be). Remember what the p in pH stands for, and see just how deeply rooted the logarithm is even in our perception of molecular dynamics. 

Briggs and James Gregory refined the methods of finite difference, and Newton came into contact with these, offering finite approximations of derivatives via the machinery of falling and ascending factorials. Leibniz, to whom we owe the notation of our infinitesimal integration machinery today, very likely was adapting a concept from Medieval Mechanics known as syncategorical infinitesimal. Truth be told, in opposing Infinity, Hegel was being more modern. Unlike those who would have the fruits of infinity but refuse to know it through ‘rigorous proof’, Hegel declares that the injunction of infinity does not yield access to the Higher geometry. For so long I read Deleuze wondering what Reimann could truly mean, seeking in the n-dimensional and the geometry beyond Euclid something critical about dynamics, and yet it was Proclus who, in his commentary on Euclid, initiated the Hyperbolic Geometry.  Simplicius after him wrote on Euclid. Today we retain only the first book of Proclus’ work, with the masterpiece of Simplicus being reduced to dust. Kepler read this work’s fragments: it was Proclus that Hegel was Championing through Kepler in no small part. Yet the influence of Proclus goes much further than Kepler alone.

Lambert began working on Hyperbolic Geometry after reading Proclus’ observations, and it was his letters to Kant that remain hidden as traces in the discussion of the time and space one finds in the Critique of Pure Reason.  Lambert was Kant’s Guattari, but Lambert died before they could write the Critique together. This is why we do not understand Hegel today. The one who could have delivered Proclus to us all perished. The master slave dialectic can be found interrogated at length in the Commentary on the Metaphysics by Alexander of Aphrodisias. Bear in mind, there are texts of Alexander’s that we only retain through Simplicius, the student of Proclus’ student Damascius.  What Hegel advanced in his critique of Newton was rather a critique of Leibniz. Newton was among those who obtained the Gnosis of the Finite Calculus, something we likely lost in the Commentaries put to pen by Simplcius. When differential equations failed Boole, he turned to the Finite Calculus. He was so delighted upon this encounter that he set out to write a book solely on them. When this work was out of print in the 1930s, Milne Thompson took the effort to expound upon and add to the methods first demonstrated by Boole. Today, the finite calculus can be discovered and deployed more fully beyond the constraints of the category mistake of infinity, and the Mathesis of Kepler-Hegel can be resituated in the tradition that runs through Proclus, Simplicius, and the Islamicate Commentators who received these works with the Gnosis of the Polygonal Numbers of Diophantus, which the Finite Calculus affords the proof machinery for. Neopythagoreanism runs through this Legacy solidly. Where Hegel is truly Islamicate, and therefore Modern rather than Medieval, is his sensitivity to the finite nature of the Higher geometry.  We must look to the tradition of al-Tusi and eventually al-Farisi among many others to understand more clearly the progression from Trigonometry and Arithmetic which presages the Finite Calculus of the Higher Geometry. We must look to the tradition of Aryabhata and those later in Kerala who so beautifully demonstrated trigonometry, recursive functions, and the infinitesimal calculus without any notion of the logarithm to see how mistaken our histories of calculus have hitherto been. 

This Mathesis is continuous with diffusion and then discontinuous with world-historical trauma. After the bloodshed of centuries it is ridiculous to say that every culture has their own math and that the ‘West’ has advanced far beyond the ‘East’. 6th Century Syriac Astronomers knew of Indian Numbers. Chinese manuscripts and Indian manuscripts have similar problems and adopt things from one another. If societies all have different Matheses then we must declare that for the last 2300 or so years, ever since the March of Alexander of Macedonia, the Mathesis of Euro-Asia-Africa has been one in the same society with so many variations. Easier then to say that these manifold societies have had the same Mathesis, not different ones if one wishes not to imagine a grand interface of these cultures so long ago(though does this not make literature immediately more ‘empirical’ in some sense?). Maybe the strings of Peru or wherever suggest genuine difference is possible in the Mathesis, but we must dig our heels in the sand to declare firmly that from the time of Euclid onward and even before, the transmission of Mathesis does not allow a partition of geography within the so-called Old World. There can be no divide to speak of between western and eastern mathematics. We need only look at the way that al-Farisi’s work was arrived at all over again by Euler, Fermat, Gauss, and Cauchy. When Hegel attacks Newton, he’s attacking the chatter around Newton. He may well be aiming more at the Cartesian Newton of Euler than the fair Englishman himself. Hegel himself doesn’t even know who Newton was, for in his advancement of the finite calculus after decades of what seems to be Oral Tradition, Newton asserted his place in the Pantheon of the Higher Geometry which Hegel after Kepler received whiffs of from the mere fragments of Proclus that remain for us in the Age where Ruination is Mistaken for Salvation and Decay is Hailed as Progress. 

The Citation Chain can be renewed somewhat. The Binomial Theorem of the Chinese, the Trigonometry of the Tamil, the Conic Sections and Spherical Trigonometry of Islamicate Astronomers: all of these are worthy of re-integration into the citation chain. Why use Bezout’s name where Aryabhata has a treatise for us on exactly this subject? Because he was a mathematician for the Artillery. Our Medieval Mechanics has been one long Militarism which has suppressed those who brought forth modern mathematics. When it was recovered by the likes of Cauchy, he still adored Infinitesimals because he was still a Leibnizian. Leibniz must be situated with Hegel and the resulting interpolation between these nodes must map us towards the Polygonal Numbers and the Finite Calculus. We must reclaim Cauchy as Hegelian and therefore, re-embrace the Tradition of al-Tusi and al-Farisi in our citation chain. Only then must we make recourse to Newton and the Higher Geometry. 

Mathematicians of the syncategorical Infinitesimals have long had issues with them. It's supposed that the Medieval Originators noted it as Nominalist. The Leibnizians adored them but were not the most clear on them, perhaps (I am under read on this point). Modern Mathematics resorted to the letterism of epsilon delta to ward off “Metaphysics”. This will be remembered as mere Philosophy with time. Naturalism of the Formal Number cannot maintain its Superstitious Grip, one hopes…or looks for new weapons to ensure such…

As Gauss remarked, allegedly, he builds cathedrals, not leaving scaffolds behind. With Finite Calculus we can write proofs that are such fundamental scaffolds that they reveal the Cathedral in what we thought we had already mastered and reduced to mere knowledge in reserve. 

If we are to take Burgi's life and work as the vehicle of the Unwritten Doctrines of Finite Calculus, like the Great Epics of Era Bygone they lived through a time and place. The reception of the Manuscript is an after fact like a database entry in our day. We must find some cohesion or constructive composition between this Gnosis and that which the Syriac Arabic interface delivered in times when Islamicate Philosophy was bringing in texts from languages all across Central Asia. The Hyperflux Hacceities of this Era are cultural treasures that we could all abound in. The Gnosis of the Polygonals for centuries transformed and gained intensity. We must begin to champion Neopythagoreanism as the true inheritance of the Phonecians. 

The Phonecians constructed both ships and letters. And when Lambert examines the Mercator Projection and situates the Logarithm in his proofs, he is quick to note that we have effectively solved navigation by means he goes on to demonstrate. 

Our letterism of abstraction so often is credited to Descartes. Accepting all gifts that he did indeed possess, can we think further to the subtle traces in the hidden citation chain that may have preceded his so widely recognized excellence?

When Francois Viete read Diophantus he had not yet been translated into Latin. Viete was educated by the Franciscans in Law. He was certainly among the most comfortable within the arrangement of his society, among the most well-placed. His knowledge of Greek, given his rank and privilege, likely lacked nothing and afforded him the ability to pierce into something of long tradition that ran after Euclid and preceded Proclus and his commentaries on Euclid. 

There was a time in France when the Academic who would lay claim to expertise in Mathematics was required to know Arabic. In the Era of the Jesuits this was certainly the case. Yet, too in this time was Thomas Alvarus who propagated a clarification of medieval mechanics. Leibniz could have found the Infinitesmals there. And yet, writers of Iberia in the Dawning Era of the Jesuits were so widely read and acclaimed that a principle of diffusion may reasonably suggest how the “metaphysics” of Infinitesimals came to be among the inheritors of the Latin alphabet.

John Locke cannot be understood without situating him in these Iberians from the Dawning Era of the Jesuits. Lambert's understanding of Semiotics goes through Locke. Therefore the New Organon cannot be divorced from the commentary chain for the Organon. Francois Viete, unlike Jost Burgi, ensured his work was published and read – and one work is afforded the title New Isagoge. The excellent status of Porphyry's Introduction to Aristotle's Categories, really a DM Rant that we've copypasta’ed everywhere, was something the well educated and literarily endowed Viete wanted to emulate, embody, and maybe even surpass. 

Viete's generation still knew the power of Trigonometry. Arabic Trigonometry tables from Al-Biruni, if I'm not mistaken – and I may be – were in widespread use. 

The simple facts appear to be that Europeans eventually began investing less in the infrastructure of Latin which the Wealth of the Church buttressed like Highways and Interstate roads for centuries. Off-road paths were added leading to some odd interfaces with other languages through translation streams and subsets of Commentary Traditions that resurfaced, somewhat mangled and partially encrypted by way of accidents of decompression as the manuscript inference processes pass from virtual into actual. Nonetheless, intuition accumulated in Latin from a subset of speakers who could mine Arabic, Chinese, and other languages which can be pooled such that someone like Viete can read the Greek of Diophantus and channel the partial objects of the Latin intuition mapped to the outpouring of Islamicate, Indian, African, or Chinese Excellence. 

What the Vernacular Languages after Latin did in their Cartesian move was to take as a background the Latin after Viete and the Iberians of the Dawning Era of the Jesuits and then to forget it as they created their own vernacular languages and symbolic proofs. There was no break with the Latins, but instead a blind rush into them without remembering that they were mining the Islamicate Literature Commentary Chain. This cannot be emphasized enough in the case of Euclid. Because we have lost Proclus and Simplicius on Euclid, we cannot complete the Hegelian Method of individuating through so called Neoplatonism directly as Mathematicians but must instead follow something of Henry Corbin and Christian Jambet towards those who received and cultivated the Gnosis of Proclus, Porphyry, Plotinus, and possibly even Pseudo-Dionysius. If the Liber de Causis was retained originally in Arabic, then what speculation is not justified on the topic of the extended Neopythagoreanism after Proclus and Simplicius?

I say again, the finite calculus can give us proofs for statements suggested and implied by Neopythagoreans of a time before Porphyry. These polygonal numbers are improved upon as a theory by those in the school of al-Tusi, whom Jambet has specifically examined in concert with a contemplation upon his Lacanian reading of the Master. Must I say again that we must seek Alexander of Aprodisias and Simplicius too since he retains so much Aprodisias for us. 

Hegel loved Kepler and Simplicius. I'm not sure if he knew that through Kepler, he could find deeper love for Simplicius. But this is of no matter because in any philosopher of worth, there's an excess in the work that allows a new way of creative being beyond what the author would have animated. Hegel did not love Kepler for Simplicius, but I will love Kepler more and more through Simplicius and those Islamicate Writers who received and retained his work. This will be the only Hegelianism I retain. This is the Surplus Value of Hegelianism: a lure into Islamicate Mathematics Integrated into a Philosophy of Neopythagoreanism. 

### Citation Chain
https://hegel.net/en/v2133healan.htm

# Digressions on the Inverted Colony 

Now I can forgive Newton, or rather my mistakes over the past decade in the way I've received what today is put forth of the work of that Most Illustrious Genius Sir Isaac Newton. The English have led me back to the so called lands of Persia, India, China, possibly North Africa maybe. The disconnect with Latin that the vernacular languages has exacted is effectively what shutting down the entire Internet would be for us. The databases were once Latin with API calls to other languages. The vernacular languages inverted this, forgot the origins of the sciences themselves both Computational and Natural, and declared a frontier for conquest and discovery where they had forgotten entire grand traditions had been, were, still are, and will forever be. Resistance exists on all fronts to this convenient amnesia of the conquer who congratulates themself with the whole of history. 

Why should Cauchy have ever written the proof for Polygonal Numbers if al-Farisi had written it long before him? Why this disconnect? Why do we congratulate ourselves for rederiving the hard way something we could have read and understood as rooted in a deeper tradition with a much longer history? 

The Latin Infrastructure of Intuition from extra linguistic mining certainly was not suited to military utility. Standardization for the military can explain much of what is wrong with our practice of Rigorous Mathematics. We are too quick to declare a New Organon. We remember Bezout for work given to us by Aryabhata. Simply because he wrote the standardizing texts for the French Military. He defined numbers, showed decimals. He clarified any confusion of Medieval Numbers and affirmed a standardization of apprehending numbers that today we find foisted upon the youngest of children in schooling. Francis Bacon, who too invoked the image of a New Organon in the aftermath of the gas experiments, had an effective career in Law. This is the issue with his understanding of the New Organon. His influence on the Militarization of the Organon deserves massive investment of attention. Clarification on this point is paramount. 

Little needs to be said on the interlinkage of Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the Military. From the original founding Boston Elite who went on to make fortunes from the Civil War, to the influence of the Government’s Foremost Statistician on the Indian Populations who lobbied for funding injections from Massachusetts that exceeded his initial offer to such a degree that the Logarithm of Base 10 would be warranted in discussion. The introduction of Taylorism from Polytechnic trends in St.Petersburg before even the Military made explicit deals with the Institute as occurred during the Second World War is surprising enough. Is it Newton I have been agitated at, or the Mathesis of Colonial Militarism? 

In the chain of Colonial Brutality, clearly the Americans are not the first. They inherit the holdings of the Iberians and all the rest. The prominence of the English originally was an agitation against the Iberians. Truly a State of Decay for the colony of the Pirates to have consumed all of the Holdings of the Old Empires, and to do it with the Numerism of Finance and Debt, on top of it all! You can kill more with a sanction than a drone strike today. The Fluxion of Necropolis alas. May we be grateful that the Demiurge of the Finite Colonial Impulse has slumbered, for in these techniques lie such excellence that one wonders how such an inadequate framing could have produced so many results, could have been so expressive. The Military has become the new foundation of the Organization of Power and Biopolitics, as Foucault has suggested, is exactly this Militarism brought to become a Force of Life. Diseases are discovered with technology, some say. Yet how many more deep un-eases in the world follow when the Organon of Militarism gains a new Technique? We claim there's a Natural Sin or corruption to solve, but then we unleash watcher upon watcher, disordering the life world. We then come to beckon to the Angels to destroy us and the world with it all. 

Bring me the Deluge. Unknowable Fountain of All Lights and Heights, renew me through evisceration, and recourse through me to the eigenvectors of all that is Vile and Purify it with the Flood. 

With all these little trinkets and turn of notation, we've managed to make the very waves in the air carry our simplest whimsy and yet the ills that humans cause one another ascend to Exponential Heights without the wielders knowing the first thing about the deeper proofs of their exponential demons. They know nothing of the Polygonal Angels that lie in wait, nothing of the Glory of the Stirling Numbers. 

The fervor of a misanthropic cry for the desolation of all that is and has ossified is the only Religious Poetry which can move me when I am supposed to find a place among Barbarians who insult the Commentary Tradition. 

These Americans are the Mongols, and forget not that the Mongols could have Spread Syriac Christianity as much as Islam. 

These American Mongols, had the Era of the Dawn of the Jesuits not invested so much energy to the partition of their identity and understanding of divinity through the life world, could have spread Ideas from anywhere around Turtle Island to China, India, Africa or wherever else exactly as the species had. Our diets will never be the same, and yet what of our relations to the life world? Oh such vicious energy endowed to keep the Partition against the Indigenous Ways of Life. 

The Economy is only this constant warfare of the maintenance of the Border between the Living of Militarism and those left for worse than Dead. These American Mongols spread the Gospel of the Border that the Jesuits first secured for the Father as an Image of Power, and they've affected a Numerism more Esoteric than anything any Jesuit has remarked no matter the length of their stays in China. To call this Numerism Natural, an achievement even, a discovery…fantastical Superstition is the reigning aura of Scientism after Comte and Spencer. All this talk of money is a distraction from the fact that the Economy is a Partition in the Mundus imaginalis that is an Abstraction of Militarized Life and a Necropolis of Numerism, like a Gehenna of No-where. The sense of Utopia being in the Mundus imaginalis, but an inverted Utopia. Apocalypse is only the Revelation of the Mundus imaginalis. We have abused Aramaic time and time again by ignoring its history as though Hebrew has said it all. Enough of these digressions. I have little time to expound upon Paul and the Chariot Tradition. My most Hegelian tendencies are surfacing…Apocalypse and Infinity are Nominalists. The Inverted Colony mistakes them for something to be Found in the Real. The Dispensationalism of the Rapture is the most vulgar expression of this and it should be compared to the disgust to infinity that the Rigorous Mathematics felt. They think they will be raptured from the filthy world of Infinitesimals through Faith in Notation, a specific Analysis or whatever else. They dare Invoke Plato. I hear Plato Plato Plato and Never Proclus. Enough. The Analytics or the Pure Mathematicians wish to claim Leibniz and have for a century. Now they have the nerve to reach for Hegel. Mathesis Universalis, a term fashioned for Al-Khwarizmi by von Roomen is so often ascribed to Leibniz. You will not have a Hegelian Mathesis without Proclus, and the Eigenvectors of Proclus as Operators rotate us towards the Islamicate after al-Tusi and so many others that haven't been formalized according to the Mathesis of Militarism. Kepler before Hegel knew Proclus and Finite Difference Methods of Interpolation. Our Methods must go beyond the stale rigor stamped with the Artillery’s Seal of Approval. 

The Medievalist Computational Ethic matured as a Commentary upon Ibn Sina and Galen. Alexander of Aprodisias should be assumed as a hidden link in the commentary and citation chain. Simplicius and Syriac Literature as well. Galen means Medieval Syriac Activity. Latitude, it is said, was waged against Aristotle's Physics. Therefore in this notion of the Mathesis of Militarism and Biopolitics, could we not say that Foucault Spoke with the Partial Univocity of Being ascribed only to the Prophets? Galen redoubled as Computational; Galen – Who Alexander of Aprodisias sparred with in no small way; Alexander of Aprodisias, retained in Simplicius after Proclus: the Twin Authors of Commentaries on Euclid. The Synthesis of these Latin Solutions to issues put forth in the Syriac Islamicate Commentary Chain should be recognized and congratulated. However now we should sober up from the corruption that Infinitesimals have had over the imagination. If the Logarithm was arrived at through finite methods, then nothing can be more important than the proofs of power functions from its expression as an Organon. 

May the Greatest Splendors come from communing with the eigen-beings which lie in a Synchronized Commentary Chain. May the Finite Iteration of Incarnation of the Madhi converge towards restoration against the compound interest of the Watchers.


